A decorator object takes an existing object and extends its functionality; it provides an API similar or identical to the underlying object, and its methods invoke the methods of the underlying object.

BufferedInputStream class is a decorator: given an InputStream object, it provides the same API but introduces buffering. For example, when its read method is invoked to read a single character, it invokes read on the underlying InputStream to read a much larger block, and saves the extra characters to satisfy future read calls

However, decorator classes tend to be shallow: they introduce a large amount of boilerplate for a small amount of new functionality. Decorator classes often contain many pass-through methods. It’s easy to overuse the decorator pattern, creating a new class for every small new feature.

> Before creating a decorator class, consider alternatives such as the following:
> * Could you add the new functionality directly to the underlying class, rather than creating a decorator class? This makes sense if the new functionality is relatively general-purpose, or if it is logically related to the underlying class, or if most uses of the underlying class will also use the new functionality. For example, virtually everyone who creates a Java InputStream will also create a BufferedInputStream, and buffering is a natural part of I/O, so these classes should have been combined. 
> * If the new functionality is specialized for a particular use case, would it make sense to merge it with the use case, rather than creating a separate class? 
> * Could you merge the new functionality with an existing decorator, rather than creating a new decorator? This would result in a single deeper decorator class rather than multiple shallow ones. 
> * Finally, ask yourself whether the new functionality really needs to wrap the existing functionality: could you implement it as a stand-alone class that is independent of the base class? In the windowing example, the scrollbars could probably be implemented separately from the main window, without wrapping all of its existing functionality. Sometimes decorators make sense, but there is usually a better alternative